---
title: WJSN Theories
permalink: /wjsn/
---

# WJSN Theories

## Save Me Save You

### Synopsis

Since Save Me Save You is presented in a relatively nonlinear fashion, it may worthwhile to try to untangle the plot before making any analyses; here is a first attempt:

The first-year students are studying their Phoreus textbooks (3:41) when they happen upon a group of students who look like the second-years they are familiar with, except that they are dressed in ordinary clothing instead of their usual uniforms, and that they seem to be wary of the first-year students (3:42). The first-years continue to the school, while the plain-clothed second-years venture off themselves to a secluded cabin off the trail. The second-years enter the cabin one by one; first Eunseo (0:49), then presumably EXY, and finally Soobin. However, before closing the door, Soobin glances outside to see another Eunseo outside the cabin. Soobin gives a faint smile to her and closes the door. On the first-years' way to school, Dayoung and Yeonjung use a hand mirror to reflect a rainbow into Yeoreum's eyes. Yeoreum seems to follow them anyways, but looks back to see Luda and Dawon making a pinky promise.

When the first-years finally arrive at school, we can see that the (uniformed) second-years and third-years are very good friends, with Dawon joining the second-years almost immediately, and Seola and Luda following. Bona, however, does not seem to bother with her friends or classmates, and simply continues to her desk in order to study. At school, we can see different skills or interests that the girls possess. Yeoreum is seemingly fascinated by books and magic, while Seola and Bona are intent on examining crystals, and Luda has the ability to make flowers (similar to the ones in the third-year girls' abode) bloom by the touch of her finger. At some point, the first-year students make a pact symbolized by pressing their thumbs together.

A blue butterfly lands on the schoolbooks used by the second-year students; notably in this scene the schoolbooks suffer from chromatic aberration while the butterfly is perfectly in focus. Meanwhile, the students see shooting stars and go to the observatory deck to get a closer look at them; most students are fascinated, but EXY and Dawon seem like they are wishing for something; this is confirmed when we see a flashback of in-class EXY and Dawon with their hands clasped together, interspersed with a shot of Soobin and Eunseo clasping each others hands in an unknown location (1:40, most likely inside the cabin?), showing that EXY, Dawon, Soobin, and Eunseo wish to guarantee their own and each others safety.

Dayoung generates a dream in the dream world, perhaps not realizing that Yeoreum behind her is also influencing the dream (1:47). Meanwhile in the real world, EXY wakes up surrounded by books, implying that she has been studying all night, perhaps to make sure her fellow second-years are safe. In the cabin, EXY and Eunseo are examining crystals just like Bona and Seola did in class, while Soobin is occupied with changing the color of a flask; here Soobin shows that non-uniformed Soobin in the cabin has a direct line of connection with uniformed Soobin in the school. Uniformed Eunseo, unlike cabin Eunseo, here appears to remove the stopper from a vial of butterflies (2:06), which mysteriously appear not to be able to fly away. Meanwhile, in the dream world, Yeoreum and Luda are lying together on the grass; real world Luda appears to be aware of this interaction on some level.

In the classroom, Seola prepares to drink the tea that was prepared in the dream world (the cup with a moon and birds over it, as opposed to the cup with La La Love lights over it), but hesitates. In the dream world, we can see Soobin and Eunseo holding hands and appearing to be happy and carefree; EXY also appears to be happy. The first years lie in the grass, with Yeonjung looking through a telescope onto the moon; here she appears to be able to see the cabin that the non-uniformed second-years are residing in, but Soobin seems keenly aware of her watching. In the dream world, Dawon, Luda, and Seola finally release the three butterflies, and all seems well; Dawon, Luda, and Seola return to their normal study activities, but Bona forebodingly stares into the distance, and it is revealed that when Seola drank her tea, she saw a vision. In this vision, many nebulae appear, followed by the breaking of a mirror, and birds flying; then, a dandelion burns, followed by the cabin the non-uniformed second-years were staying at burning, and a third-year's textbook burning. This is followed by a vision of three people: Non-uniformed Eunseo #2, who stayed outside the cabin, Dayoung, and Yeonjung just having broken the mirror. Following this, dream world Yeoreum turns into green butterflies, and it is noted that the moon in the dream world appears to be on fire. Seola further envisions Bona and the rest of WJSN in a theater, with everyone except for Bona leaving, and then the scene burning down; this causes Seola to shed a tear, and she awakens, seemingly many years later, in the now-empty classroom which is now seemingly in disuse.

NB: It seems to me when Seola awakens, the Phoreus banners, which were previously green, are now black, but I am not sure about this.
